
Title: Bug Safari
Date: 2012-08-16 20:25
Tags: Tech

Mountain Lion prompted me to give Safari another try. Two weeks later, I'm back to Chrome.

I switched to Chrome from Safari about 2 years ago. It was tough at the time because Chrome wasn't quite fully-baked yet, but it has since become the most rock-solid browser out there. And that despite the seemingly *constant* updates (which can occasionally be jarring).

That being said, there are a few things about Safari that I've always liked better:

1. The Interface. I know many will disagree, but the chrome (lowercase) in Safari is much cleaner than the chrome in Chrome. 
2. Bookmark Favicons. I admit that this is absurdly nit-picky, but I can't *stand* those damn favicons in the bookmarks bar. I've actually taken to hiding the bookmarks bar in Chrome and command-shit-B 'ing when I need them.
3. Top Sites. I'm seriously addicted to Safari's top sites view. Top Sites is like crack to my procrastination addict. Sure, there are bookmarks, but those pretty little, live-updating screenshots; mmmmm.....
4. Visual History. It's seriously handy to be able to see the thumbnails of past visited sites; it's helped me find things quickly quite a few times.

But Chrome had the unified url/search bar, better tab management, extensions, and was just plain faster. 

Then Lion came along with those oh-so-slick gestures—seriously, try two-finger swiping back without cracking a smile in Safari—and "extensions". So, I switched back to Safari; seduced by the idea that maybe, finally, it was good enough to replace Chrome.

It wasn't. The lack of unified search bar made it terribly hard to adjust; the "extensions" weren't numerous or impressive; the lack of command-shift-T was (and is) incredibly frustrating (and, no, command-Z in Safari is not a replacement); and it was just plain buggy. So, back to Chrome.

Enter Mountain Lion: the search bar is *finally* unified  (huzzah!); the gestures are slicker than ever; the extension support is a bit more mature; and the promise of iCloud tabs gives a very compelling reason to stay consistent across platforms (Chrome on iOS has it's own set of problems). So, I tried.

And I was *almost* there this time, but **Safari 6 is so damn buggy**. It's really unbelievable. I know I use browsers more heavily than most, but Safari would regularly stop responding, give me the beach ball, freeze up, or completely crash. One bug that was mind-boggling frustrating: Safari would occasionally refuse to scroll. That's right, I couldn't scroll any window, even after opening a new tab. The only solution (that I could find) was to quit and relaunch.

Chrome is still more responsive, more reliable, and faster. Safari's minimal edge in user interface just can't compete.

Oh, and that Top Sites addiction? Meet [Speed Dial](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/dgpdioedihjhncjafcpgbbjdpbbkikmi).

