---
Title: Why Rep. Walz Will Still be Rep. Walz Come December
Date: 2012-04-16 09:52
Tags: Politics
---
Ever since Tim Walz toppled six-term Republican incumbent Gil Gutknecht in 2006, Republicans have viewed Minnesota's First Congressional District as a pick-up opportunity. Twice they have been proven wrong.

Jeff Rosenberg at [MNpublius points out why](http://mnpublius.com/post/21207074326/walz-is-far-ahead-of-his-republican-challengers-in) they are going to be proven wrong a third time come November:

>Walz has already proven himself to be a formidable candidate, surviving the 2010 wave election in a Republican-leaning district by over five points. In 2012, he’ll face a more favorable environment and an even crazier opponent. The Republicans will need some serious firepower to topple him, but they’re falling far, far behind.

I couldn't agree more.

I think national pundits mischaracterize the competitiveness of the CD1 race for one simple reason: they've never met Tim Walz. If you simply look at the demographics and history of the district, you will correctly walk away with the impression that CD1 is a swing district. By all measures, it is. But Tim has never been a partisan ideologue. He doesn't vote based on polls or political commands from on high. He votes on his convictions and, more often than not, those convictions are shared by his constituents. Thus, even when some of his constituents question his vote, they often respect his reasoning.

A few sites are reporting on the latest fundraising numbers out of CD1 ([Bluestem Prairie](http://www.bluestemprairie.com/bluestemprairie/2012/04/emo-senator-the-unbearable-lightness-of-gop-mn01-fec-reports-parry-36410-coh-quist-59398.html),  [MNpublius](http://mnpublius.com/post/21207074326/walz-is-far-ahead-of-his-republican-challengers-in)) and while it's tempting to gloat about Tim's fundraising dominance, I'm forced to remind myself to be cautious. First of all, the GOP does not yet have a candidate. This means two things: (1) the GOP fundraising numbers are going to be light as Republicans sit on the sidelines awaiting a result, and (2) the national GOP has yet to enter the equation. And if history is any indication, there will be *a lot* of national GOP money in CD1.

While I'm not worried about Tim, we must remain diligent and [get involved](http://www.timwalz.org/). That's the only way to guarantee that we still have a Representative Walz come December.