---
Title: iChatter
Date: 2012-04-12 11:02
Tags: Tech
---
Dan Moren at MacWorld makes an [interesting suggestion](http://www.macworld.com/article/1166294/imessage_and_instant_messages_deserve_different_apps.html):
> I think the company might want to reconsider the direction it’s heading in with Messages in Mountain Lion, in particular with the integration of iMessage.

Dan has many good points in the article (you should read it) but his solution of breaking iChat and Messages apart doesn't really follow from the problem he describes. I do think that the problems he describes are all very legitimate, but I think they're problems with iMessage as a whole, not the fact that it's now married to iChat.

First, iMessage should absolutely incorporate permissions. There is no reason that I should not have control over who can digitally inject themselves into my life. This, actually, is a rather large problem. A friend of mine had a bad break-up and the ex kept sending harassing, borderline abusive text messages. Short of a change of phone number, my friend was left to weather the abuse, try to hold strong, and hope the ex grew tired of it. This is unacceptable. iChat/iMessages convergence or not, I should be able to block people from harassing me.[^1] Clearly Apple has the ability to block iMessages, and I would *think* they could screen text messages on the phone as well (although, text message screening may be a different story). Beyond blocking, Apple could, and should, set up more robust permissions for iMessages. In particular, it makes a great deal of sense to limit some contacts to only some devices—it might even be possible to do a quick validation on the *sender's* end: if they don't have my mobile phone number, the iMessage does not go to my mobile.[^2]

Second, Messages (the Mac app) should show a user as away if they're not in Messages (the iOS app) or at their computer. Messages (the Mac app) should include the same status indicators as iChat had, but these should reset to idle when the computer is closed or goes idle. This results in a system where  (1) I can manage chat on my computer while I work, (2) I don't have to manage status on my iOS device (think about it, that would be clumsy), and (3) computer users see mobile users as away (unless they're actively in messages).[^3]

Third, alerts clearly need to be synced across devices. I don't think this is as difficult to do as Dan assumes. In fact, I would be surprised if this isn't addressed in iOS 6 and Mountain Lion. If my computer is on and not idle (something iChat already knows), send iMessages there and don't send alerts to iOS devices. Note that iMessage already syncs read messages between devices. Similarly, if my iPad is on (iOS devices auto-off fairly quickly), send it there. Finally, if both my computer and iPad are off/unavailable, send it to my phone.

My guess is that even with the above changes, Dan would still hope for a separate iChat application. But I also assume that Dan is among the rare breed of Mac users that use chat enough to care about this stuff and also still use iChat.[^4] For most users, the above would solve some very serious problems while stream-lining the whole experience. 

I think Apple is right to integrate iMessage and iChat. They just need to iron out some very serious wrinkles.

[^1]: As Dan points out, some carriers allow you to block people, but you can't ever manage this from the phone. More criminal is the fact that some carriers, such as AT&T, require you to pay an additional fee to do so. Regardless, few people know of this service, much less how to use it.
[^2]: I know that incrementally moving away from carrier-controlled phone numbers is an unspoken reason for iMessage and FaceTime in the first place, but phone numbers aren't going anywhere for a while.
[^3]: I think "away" is the right status for a mobile not in use—to the sender it means, "you can bug me if you need to, but you may be bugging me."
[^4]: In my experience, instant messagers fall into two primary categories: (1) casual users who instant message through Gmail in their browser, and (2) addicts who use a more robust program than iChat, like Adium.
