Title: iPhone 5
Date: 2012-09-13 10:46
Tags: Tech

> Not being boring requires taking risks, and risk is not something Apple does. Not anymore. 

I had been waffling about whether to write about the iPhone 5 until I read that line in a Gizmodo [article](http://gizmodo.com/5942977/the-worst-thing-about-the-iphone-5-is-also-the-most-brilliant) this morning.

For a moment, ignore your link-bait-radar and take the above line as sincere, which I do not doubt that its author intended it as. The line rests on two premises:

1. Apple used to be risk keen.
2. Apple is now risk averse. (And the iPhone 5 is a manifestation of this.)

I don't want to spend a lot of examining the veracity of these two premises, but I'll engage them briefly. 

The iPhone is probably the best example of "risk keen" Apple. Not only did Apple decide to intentionally cannibalize its own product—the iPod—but it bet the farm in doing so. Countless employees were shifted from profitable work on established projects to a pipe-dream full of unknowns. After years of work, what they ultimately shipped was a phone that changed the industry, but did not have 3G, a keyboard, 3rd party applications, expansion... the list goes on. It was risky to ship a bet-the-farm product *without* these items, but Apple was focused on maximizing impact. And maximizing impact requires prioritizing. Battery life was prioritized above 3G; versatility above a keyboard; stability over extensibility; and so on.

Apple did it all over again with the iPad. Potentially cannibalizing its Mac business to enter a market that was not just unproven, but was a proven disaster for all previous entrants. But, again, the systemic risk was accepted in order to maximize impact, and the product was organized around that goal.

Risk, then, is not the primary axis around which Apple organizes itself, impact is. Where the impact might be significant, risk is tolerated to an extent far beyond any other major corporation. Apple is not nearly as afraid of lost profits as they are of irrelevance—they will not hesitate to exchange short-term profits for long-term impact, and they have proven it time and again. If you don't see that, you're not paying attention.

So, what is the iPhone 5, then? It is, very simply, the best possible phone that Apple believed it was capable of producing at marketable price points. If they thought a radical new design would have resulted in a significantly improved phone, I have no doubt that they would have pursued it, damn the consequences. But what they absolutely will not do is pursue a radical new design simply to shake things up, or entice new users, or to distinguish it from prior models.

Apple's goal is not to shock or excite you with novelty, but to sell you their vision of "the best."