---
Title: iTunes: Moss on a Rolling Stone
Date: 2012-04-10 13:07
Tags: Tech
---
Frederico Viticci over at MacStories [adds to](http://www.macstories.net/stories/its-time-to-change-itunes/) the years-old call to simplify iTunes:
>I’ll tell you what’s wrong with iTunes: in the age of iCloud, iTunes is a weirdly old-fashioned desktop software to organize media and manage devices in the same way we did 10 years ago. Only with more features and content types. iTunes is the epitome of old interfaces and interactions trying to hold onto the present.

I whole-heartedly agree. But, of course, the complaint that iTunes has grown far too big for its britches is nothing new.

What is new, is its eventual liberator: iCloud. I have no doubt that as iCloud adoption soars, Apple will cut iTunes free of much of its syncing bagage. It's just a matter of time.

But as the iTunes of today becomes iCloud in the sky, the problem of bloat and complexity will be moved, to some extent, to the cloud. This is a problem. A big problem.

The beauty of iCloud is that it is "[automatic and effortless](http://www.apple.com/icloud/)." There is no conflict management; in fact, there's no management at all. Therein lies the rub. 

As anyone who uses iTunes Match knows, "automatic and effortless" isn't always automatic or effortless—sometimes, a little management is needed. Do I want to scroll through every artist I have in the cloud just to find the [Lotus Plaza](http://pitchfork.com/reviews/albums/16432-lotus-plaza-spooky-action-at-a-distance/) album I bought last week? Answer: no. But I do on occasion have a hankering to listen to [Chutes Too Narrow](http://pitchfork.com/reviews/albums/7114-chutes-too-narrow/), only to realize that I forgot to download it to my device. Of course, there are some interim solutions to these problems—I can switch "Show All Music" on and off in Settings on my iPhone—but they are rarely intuitive or elegant.[^1]

Even more distressing, when a true error finds its way into the cloud, the error goes from a mere annoyance to a pervasive, hair-pulling problem. And, again, although there are sometimes means by which I can correct the problem, they are none too clear (nor do they seem to work consistently)—I have literally given up on music management since signing up for iTunes Match.

Departing for a moment from iTunes, consider Photo Stream. iOS 5.0  released Photo Stream with no means by which to delete photos from its clutches. That shot you took in the mirror this morning to check out how those jeans look? That will be appearing on your Apple TV screen saver. With iOS 5.1 we were granted deletion privileges, but if said photo was *added* to the Photo Stream from another device, deleting it on another iOS device will not remove it from the cloud. [^2] And now, thanks to iCloud, this photo is everywhere with no immediate means to get rid of it.

iTunes (and iPhoto, to a lesser extent) used to handle these issues locally. I believe that both, in the very near term, will be completely freed of all this heavy lifting. I disagree with Frederico that a world without iTunes (and here he means iTunes as a local sync manager) is not yet possible. It may be painful for many of us at this juncture, but it is possible. And if history is any indication, Apple is not one to worry about a little pain when the future is knocking. And there is no doubt, iCloud is the future.

But as the truth moves to the cloud, the truth slips from our direct control. Apple's unenviable challenge will be to empower users with control over *their* cloud,[^3] while ensuring that iTunes' bloat is left far, far below.

[^1]: I do have a proposed solution for this one: I would love, *love* to have a switch in the Music app and in iTunes to show music on my device or all music  (*all music*, not music in the cloud). Apple already allows you to sort this way when looking for past downloads in iTunes or in the App store.
[^2]: For example, if I take a picture with my NEX-7 and add it to iPhoto via my Macbook Air, that photo finds its way into my Photo Stream. Now, if I open that picture on my iPhone and delete it, I am warned that it will only be deleted from the *Photo Stream on this iPhone*. Isn't Photo Stream supposed to be in the cloud, agnostic of any given device? Apparently not. This is true of a photo taken on an iPhone and deleted on an iPad. Yet it is not true of a photo taken on an iOS device and deleted from the Photo Stream from within iPhoto. Confused yet?
[^3]: Don't get me wrong, I still think Apple's intends for the cloud to be manipulated through native apps–they're not Google—but they have to figure out a way make that app-cloud connection more intuitive and manageable.