Title: TBR Goes Pay
Date: 2012-07-25 09:25
Tags: Tech

Ben Brooks has taken the bold leap into subscription blogging. His take on it is interesting and novel: pay $4 a month for access to the blog as Ben publishes it, or read it on a one week delay. Interesting and novel, but as Ben [himself acknowledges](http://brooksreview.net/2012/07/new-tbr/), an experiment.

Before I dive into my thoughts on this experiment, let me first say this: I happily forked over $4, and I think [you should too](http://brooksreview.net/members/). The below analysis is more a reflection of my pessimistic view of paywalls than it is of Ben or The Brooks Review (TBR).

My immediate reaction is one of skepticism. Paywalls are difficult because they require the website to engage in a sort of doublethink: the publisher must simultaneously incentivize readers to pay *and* grow the readership. An ad based business model is convenient for websites because it allows the publisher to focus exclusively on growth and the ad revenue will follow. A paywall, on the other hand, erects a barrier between the reader and the content in order to incentivize existing readers to pay. But in creating a barrier, the paywall necessarily retards growth and discovery. The trick becomes punching enough holes in the wall to allow natural discovery and growth (a la *nytimes.com*), while keeping it *just* obnoxious enough to push users to cough up. Ben has devised an interesting plan on this front, but it's still, inevitably, going to have an impact on growth.

Which is why, I *think*, timing is so important. If a paywall is erected before the site has proven its value to a sufficiently broad audience, a negative feedback loop arises:  a small pool of readers will subscribe, the overall audience will decline, and the shrinking overall audience will provide an insufficient pool of potential new subscribers. So, as the original subscriber base shrinks due to natural atrophy, the number of new subscribers will be increasingly insufficient to sustain, much less grow, the subscriber base. Of course, there is an alternative, more optimistic feedback loop that could arise: a small pool of readers will subscribe, those readers will evangelize the site's excellent content, and the pool of paying users will slowly, but surely, expand. But if one assumes typically low conversion rates at each point of transaction[^1], it seems to me that a website with a smaller readership will add subscribers at a rate that is exponentially slower than a larger site. In short, a site must have sufficient[^2] exit velocity to break free of he negative-feedback loop.

I really like The Brooks Review, but I'm not sure that it has reached this exit velocity yet. There are a collection of mac opinion sites that I tend to read every day: (in order of frequency checked) [Daring Fireball](http://daringfireball.net)[^3], [Marco](http://marco.org/), [Shawn Blanc](http://shawnblanc.net/), [The Loop](http://www.loopinsight.com/), and [Mac Stories](http://macstories.com/). [The Brooks Review](http://brooksreview.net/), [Chuck Skoda](http://chuckskoda.com/), and [512 Pixels](http://512pixels.net) are three sites that, for me personally, have yet to break into the above daily read list. I enjoy them when I think to visit, but I don't think to visit every day.

Now, am I the type of reader that's going to drive growth at TBR? No, at least not on any meaningful level. But the fact that Ben hasn't quite pierced the veil of this upper-echelon of mac blogs, makes me think that he will have a tough time sustaining a subscriber pool for all of the above reasons. 

That all being said, it's a truly interesting and novel experiment. And I'm more than happy to cough-up to be a guinea pig.


[^1]: For example, let's say Ben posts a new article. There are at least three transactions with conversion rates that shrink the pool of potential subscribers: starting with the number of people who read the site already, a reader must (1) share the article in some fashion, (2) someone must then click through to Ben's site from the shared link, (3) the new reader must then click through to some other area of Ben's site, and (4) decide to subscribe. Of course someone could skip straight from point 2 to 4, but it's unlikely that someone new to the site will subscribe after reading one article. In fact, it's pretty unlikely that the user subscribes on their first visit, no matter how many other articles they read.
[^2]: If you're not sick of me using "sufficient" instead of a meaningful estimate of actual numbers, kudos, you are a more-than-sufficiently tolerant person.
[^3]:  I check Daring Fireball so frequently that it appears in my Chrome most visited sites when I open a blank tab. Once a site makes it onto the most visited tab I likely check it twice as much because now I am reminded of the site every time I open a new tab. It creates "stick" that I don't particularly like. Annnnnnd this footnote has now resulted in a 30 minute search for a new tab Chrome extension I like... I have a problem. 