Title: iPad 8
Date: 2012-07-10 09:25
Tags: Tech

I agree with everything [John is saying](http://daringfireball.net/2012/07/this_ipad_mini_thing).

But here's my question: what is this thing going to be called? 

I definitely wouldn't be surprised by iPad mini, but there are a couple things that bug me about the name. 

First, this isn't *that* small. The iPod mini was small. An 8 inch iPad isn't. In fact, there's already a whole line of iOS devices that are much more mini. 

Second, at 8 inches, this device is slightly bigger than the competition—it's superior to the Kindle Fire and Nexus 7 in every way, including size. I don't necessarily expect this to be a major selling point, but it's there. 

Third, there's more of a negative connotation surrounding small size with a tablet than there was with an iPod. I don't think this is a big deal, and public perceptions can change rapidly with a hot brand (remember the iPad jokes), but Steve famously pointed out how too small with a tablet can be a bad thing. 

Finally, what if Apple makes a tablet *bigger* than 10 inches? This is a very minor consideration given that a 10+ inch  isn't on the horizon, but if tablets truly are the future of computing, it's not too much of a stretch to think that Apple will eventually flesh out a full line. So there's an iPad mini, iPad, and an iPad... pro? 

I'm streching here, but maybe Apple removed the number from the iPad (3) for another reason. Maybe they were preparing for the launch of the iPad 8.


